Identification of Neutralizing Monoclonal Antibodies Targeting Novel Conformational Epitopes of the Porcine Epidemic Diarrhoea Virus Spike Protein. Chang CY1, Cheng IC2, Chang YC1, Tsai PS2, Lai SY2, Huang YL3, Jeng CR1,2, Pang VF1,2, Chang HW4,5. Author information 1 Graduate Institute of Molecular and Comparative Pathobiology, School of Veterinary Medicine, National Taiwan University, Taipei, 106, Taiwan. 2 School of Veterinary Medicine, National Taiwan University, Taipei, 106, Taiwan. 3 Animal Health Research Institute, Council of Agriculture, New Taipei City, 251, Taiwan. 4 Graduate Institute of Molecular and Comparative Pathobiology, School of Veterinary Medicine, National Taiwan University, Taipei, 106, Taiwan. huiwenchang@ntu.edu.tw. 5 School of Veterinary Medicine, National Taiwan University, Taipei, 106, Taiwan. huiwenchang@ntu.edu.tw. Abstract Since 2010, newly identified variants of porcine epidemic diarrhoea virus (PEDV) have caused high mortality in neonatal piglets which has devastated the swine industry. The spike (S) glycoprotein of PEDV contains multiple neutralizing epitopes and is a major target for PEDV neutralization and vaccine development. To understand the antigenicity of the new PEDV variant, we characterized the neutralizing epitopes of a new genotype 2b PEDV isolate from Taiwan, PEDV Pintung 52 (PEDV-PT), by the generation of neutralizing monoclonal antibodies (NmAbs). Two NmAbs, P4B-1, and E10E-1-10 that recognized the ectodomain of the full-length recombinant PEDV S protein and exhibited neutralizing ability against the PEDV-PT virus were selected. Recombinant truncated S proteins were used to identify the target sequences for the NmAbs and P4B-1 was shown to recognize the C-terminus of CO-26K equivalent epitope (COE) at amino acids (a.a.) 575-639 of the PEDV S. Interestingly, E10E-1-10 could recognize a novel neutralizing epitope at a.a. 435-485 within the S1A domain of the PEDV S protein, whose importance and function are yet to be determined. Moreover, both NmAbs could not bind to linearized S proteins, indicating that only conformational epitopes are recognized. This data could improve our understanding of the antigenic structures of the PEDV S protein and facilitate future development of novel epitope-based vaccines.